[Music]
okay let me be honest with you I'm not
exactly the epitome of graceful even
when I try my best coffee still ends up
on my newly washed and ironed shirt and
if I'm carrying two or more things in my
arms I'm bound to drop at least one of
them but the other day I surpassed
myself I left my beloved laptop in a hot
car I didn't know then that almost all
laptops tend to work best when the
temperature is between 50 and 95 degrees
any colder or hotter and your gadget
starts to wig out for one thing laptop
lithium iron batteries are notorious for
not being heat freely I had to learn
this the hard way but I'll tell you
about that later even if you leave your
device in a hot place only a few times
you risk ruining it beyond repair see
for yourself with every 15 degrees rise
in temperature the batteries lifespan
gets cut in half and once the heat
damage is it there's no way you can
restore it the disaster happens this way
when your laptop gets too hot all
chemical reactions inside its batteries
speed up it all has to do with that
fancy lithium-ion part of the label a
under two high temperatures the
negatively and positively charged ions
inside this type of battery start to
move faster than usual more movement
usually means more heat and well that
means a shorter lifespan for your poor
battery now I'll be honest again the
newest laptops can easily deal with the
much harsher conditions and temperatures
with some of them being able to take 140
degrees like a champ though I wouldn't
test that if I were you but sadly my
computer wasn't one of them
I also learned the hard way that the
battery isn't the only thing that can
get harmed when you abandon your laptop
in a hot car any hard drive consists of
delicate and fragile components and when
the materials they're made of get heated
they tend to expand which means
permanent damage or even failure of the
hard drive apparently to avoid such
dramatic consequences I had to shut my
laptop off all the way before leaving it
in the car even if it had been in power
saving mode and it wasn't it would have
still generated Heat and inside the hot
clothes vehicle left out in the Sun the
laptops motherboard and hard drive are
likely to burn out I should have made
sure my laptop was and would stay out of
the direct sunlight as well a white or
bright cloth placed over the computer
would have protected it by creating a
barrier between my device and the heat
of the car and yet another blunder I
made I was supposed to let my laptop
cool down completely after shutting it
down
which I didn't now don't judge me too
harshly I didn't know any of this at
that time
so imagine my horror when I come up to
my car and discover that I've left my
laptop inside even worse while I was
away the Sun moved and is now shining
directly on the glossy surface of the
lid when I touch it my hand jerks back
on its own the laptop feels scorching
hot with my heart rate rising in a panic
I try to switch it on but all my
attempts fail well I guess it's time to
pay a visit to the service center the
man who greets me there takes a look at
my computer and then says to me in
astonishment
I see you've tried to damage this thing
in every way possible charming when he
sees how puzzled I am he explains how my
bad habits have almost completely
destroyed my laptop spoiler alert
leaving it in a hot car wasn't the worst
of my mistakes I often use my laptop
until its battery was down to nearly
zero I thought it didn't matter at the
time but by doing that I was degrading
the battery much faster than
Cerie if you want your computer to serve
you longer don't let it run out of juice
completely better charge it more
frequently also I have a cat and you
know what cats love toasty warm surfaces
like a laptop my weakness for giving in
to the little rascals every demand
seriously let me down every time my
fluffy companion cuddled on my
computer's warm keyboard a substantial
amount of his fur got into the system's
fans by the way that was another reason
my laptop used to overheat once or twice
I accidentally closed my laptop with
earbuds inside hey you can see by now
absent-mindedness is my middle name
guess what that got me scratches and
dents on the screen luckily I didn't
pull my earphones from the computer
after I finished listening to something
that's how I avoided the worst outcome
damaging my laptop's headphone plug I've
heard about a misconception lots of
people still believe if you leave
magnets next to your laptop it'll
eventually ruin your device just to be
on the safe side I asked the service
center technician if I should be alarmed
if a fridge magnet accidently welcome to
my life drops on my laptop well looking
quite disturbed the man assured me that
it wouldn't change anything about how my
computer worked on the other hand if it
was a powerful industrial magnet and you
placed that powerful magnet next to an
electronic device magnetic disturbance
could result in data loss you see a
laptops hard drive has some magnets of
its own they're used to save and store
data whoo it's a good thing I don't have
an industrial magnet what's the most
convenient and fastest way to clean the
laptop screen I was sure that you can do
it using wet wipes it turns out I was
wrong again cleaning the screen with
liquids tends to damage it any liquid
even the most natural cleaner can lead
to corrosion once it gets on the screen
as for soaps or chemicals they can
destroy this special screen coating the
best way to clean the screen is by
wiping it with a dry microfiber cloth
like the ones people use to clean their
eyeglasses
I also used to think that since a laptop
is a portable device you can carry it
anywhere you want at any time mmm
nope when your computer is on and
running a program that needs access to
the hard drive you should leave your
gadget be don't transport it don't move
it from one place to another it's best
not to touch it all together otherwise
your impatience may cost you some lost
data by the way laptops also don't take
kindly to being shaken so avoid using
your computer while riding a motorcycle
running away from people a it could
happen or traveling in the back of a car
but back to my conversation with the
expert on all things laptop related have
you ever spilled anything on it when the
man at the service center asked me this
question he looks at me pointedly and
arches one brow I can't make myself look
him straight in the eye and start
mumbling something along the lines of
not really know maybe once or twice it
was coffee uh-oh
I thought he wouldn't notice since every
time it happened I dried the spill
almost immediately well looks like the
liquid from one of those incidents
managed to get to the insides of my
computer it also caused some problems
unnoticeable for me but obvious for an
expert also I wasn't supposed to use my
laptop as a coaster for a hot cup of
coffee
apparently this damages the screen
matrix whatever that is well as you can
see I wasn't the most careful laptop
owner and now I have to pay the price
the man at the service center tells me I
can leave my laptop with him but he
doesn't know whether it'll be possible
to revive my computer huh fingers
crossed
hey if you learn something new today
then give the video a like and share it
with your friend just don't pour coffee
into your laptop and here are some other
videos I think you'll enjoy just click
to the left or right and remember stay
on the bright side of life